Do you want subtitles for any video?
-=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-
We begin tonight with Hurricane Katrina
which could be among
the biggest storms
ever to hit this country.
A major hurricane
barreling toward the Gulf Coast.
We are watching
a Category 5 hurricane. Hurricane Katrina.
Hurricane Katrina
is now a Category 5 hurricane.
Right now.
we are emphasizing leaving the city.
Hurricane Katrina has
upgraded itself to a Category 5 hurricane.
We cannot stress enough
the danger this hurricane poses
to Gulf Coast communities.
And this is just the beginning.
The city of New Orleans…
…this time tomorrow
those people who have fled
may have no homes to return to.
…much of New Orleans underwater.
Hurricane Katrina...
This is the storm some have long feared.
Holy shit. Jim. we're in the chapel.
Sarah. you gotta come see
this now. Second-floor walkway.
So. Dr. Baltz.
after Hurricane Katrina.
there were 45 dead bodies found
at Memorial Medical Center.
Forty-five.
Yes.
There were five days after the storm.
The most ungodly conditions.
But 45 people died at your hospital.
You're making it sound intentional.
You're mak...
Was it intentional. Doctor?
Please. Please.
You have to understand the circumstances.
Why don't you go back
to the beginning for us. Doctor?
If I understand. Doctor.
there were two hospitals in that building?
Yes. uh. correct. Uh. two hospitals.
There was Memorial Hospital.
where I worked. and Life Care.
which was a long-term care facility
on the seventh floor.
It had its own staff and patients.
But just ahead of the storm.
we took in an extra 1.200 people.
Look. we have always sheltered people
at our hospital during hurricanes.
That was not unusual.
So. if none of this was unusual…
How did all those patients
die over five days?
Doctor. how did those 45 people die?
National Guard...
They are now saying that Hurricane Katrina
has upgraded itself
to a Category 5 hurricane.
Just let the folks know
what they have to do
and point them in the right direction.
- I'm sure they will cooperate.
- We have rules for a reason.
Rules for a reason.
Ewing. this is not the first
time this hospital has sheltered people.
You know that.
This is an emergency room.
This isn't a petting zoo.
Oh. come on. These people
are members of our community.
- This is what we do.
- Good.
- Yeah.
- We can take care of them.
and we can appropriately take care of
pets in the basement…
- Well...
- …which is what the rules state.
The Gulf. where actually
it's very warm now.
Between 85 and 90 degrees in some areas.
Okay? We have to take care of them.
We have to take care of these people.
That's what our mission is.
- These animals. they haven't...
- Look. staff meeting in a-a half an hour.
Anna.
Horace. is anybody
in charge of all these people?
Oh. everybody's fine on their own.
I've done this a dozen times.
Sheltering here is like
being snowed in at the airport.
Uh. you know. you don't have to be here.
We got plenty of staff.
No. I've got some post-surgery patients
to look after.
Vince can take care of the house.
I wanna be here.
- I'd rather be here than not.
- Understood.
Oh. uh. Susan said there's a senior staff
meeting in half an hour. okay?
- Okay. Thank you.
- Okay.
Good morning. everybody.
Morning.
Not staying in your office
like the rest of the doctors?
In it together. right?
It's like camping.
We could use a campfire.
I hate it when they crank up the AC.
What's that?
Mmm. Can opener.
That's all you brought? Some crackers.
tuna fish and a can opener.
Worst comes to worst. I figure we'll be
here three days at the most.
First hurricane at the hospital?
Yes. it is.
Why? Is there a problem?
No. it's just...
It's good you're optimistic. That's all.
Well. how about we just hope
we don't have to find out the hard way
whether it's too much or too little.
Yeah.
Sure.
I'm gonna make some rounds.
I'll see you out there.
- Mmm.
- Mm-hmm.
Yeah. That's good. Let's go.
Everybody. keep pushing in.
Keep moving in.
- Yes. ma'am.
- Got it. Yep.
Come on. everybody. In.
We could use the body heat. huh?
Everybody hear me?
Yeah. Mm-hmm.
Okay. So. first off. for those of y'all
who don't know me. I'm Susan Mulderick.
and I'm the incident commander
for this storm.
I know that... that you all
are dealing with a lot already.
and you're worried about your families.
and you're worried about your loved ones.
I know that we all are.
But regardless of what is going on
outside or inside.
this is still a functioning hospital.
And until this passes. we're gonna be
operating with special protocols.
- Where are my unit liaisons?
- Right here.
Y'all have walkie-talkies?
- Ever... Everybody?
- Yes. ma'am.
- Yes.
- Okay.
To be clear for y'all. these liaisons
are in charge of the patient units.
and in case of an emergency in that unit.
you take orders from them.
Any hospital-wide directives
have to come from René or me.
- Or me.
- Or Richard.
Sorry. Sorry.
Richard... Richard is filling in for Ruben.
who is on vacation.
- Boo!
- Oh. listen.
You ought to be ashamed talking about
your own staff president like that.
Who's on vacation.
Anything from y'all?
People are asking about
the air-conditioning.
Tell them that we turn the temperature
way down for a reason.
If the city power goes out.
our backup generators
don't operate the AC.
and it's gonna get hot as a skillet
in here real quick.
So. as long as it is cold.
they know everything's okay.
Anything else?
Yeah. Uh. Susan. have we. uh.
talked to someone from Life Care?
I mean. I know they're their own hospital.
but we are in the same building.
Well. they should have their own
emergency plan. and... and they're...
You know. they're top dollar.
so if it comes to it.
we'll probably be going
to them for favors.
Anything... Anything else? Anybody?
Okay. Well. I have been
at Memorial long enough
- to know that most of these...
- Baptist.
I have been at this hospital long enough
to know that most of these storms.
they just blow on over.
But it is the wasp that you're not
paying attention to that stings ya.
So let's just do
what we are supposed to do.
That's it. Let's go do work!
All right. Great. Thanks. Thanks.
This is a grim situation
for the city of New Orleans.
Did you come over from
Life Care. Chalmette?
- Yeah.
- Diane Robichaux.
- Oh. Gina Is bell.
- How many patients did you bring with you?
- Uh. 19.
- Jesus.
Yeah. Well. corporate. you know.
They think Chalmette's gonna get hit hard.
They'd rather evacuate patients from there
over to here at Life Care. Baptist.
It's "Memorial."
You call the hospital "Baptist."
you sound like an old-timer.
Well. corporations come and go.
They can call it whatever they want.
To me. it's still Baptist.
Everybody get settled okay?
- Yeah. You know. brought my A-team.
- Good. Good.
There is a patient I wanna keep my eye on.
Emmett Everett. Paraplegic. diabetic.
Got him in a big boy bed now.
but he might need some special care.
- Okay. Anything you need. let us know.
- Okay. Thanks. hon.
It is now a monster.
Category 5. 160-mile-an-hour winds…
Morning. Angela.
Morning. Diane.
Wilda.
- Wilda.
- Mm-hmm.
How's your mom doing?
Ma. tell Diane how you're doing.
Pretty good.
- Yeah? You good?
- I'm all right.
All right.
Her temperature's down.
Oh. that's a good sign.
She's fighting off the infection.
You gonna stay here
with your mom for the storm?
- Oh. yeah.
- Yeah?
Well. I think the kitchen's making food.
You need something. just go get it.
- Thank you.
- Yeah.
She is looking better though. Your mom is.
It's not anything like what I expected.
There are people everywhere.
They have their pets with them.
Everything seems just so disorganized.
- Right.
- But everybody acts like it's normal.
Well. I guess it is. right?
I guess it is normal
for people who have done it before.
Yeah. I got laughed at.
What? You got laughed at. why?
Because I only brought
a six-pack of water and some tuna.
Come on.
You'll only be there a few days most.
That's what I said.
I wish you were here.
I don't just mean in my heart.
I wish that you would come.
I know. I know. darling. but
I gotta take care of the house. all right?
The house can take care of itself.
You know?
Because when things get bad.
you know. if they get bad.
I don't wanna have to call you.
I wanna be able to turn around
and see you here.
Okay. look.
I'm going to see you in a day. all right?
Okay. Promise?
Yeah. I promise.
Uh. would you say a prayer for us?
You say it. You know.
I've been saying them all day.
Okay. Um…
All right. God be surrounding you.
You are safe in his arms.
His light will always guide you.
Amen.
Can you do me a favor? Would you
take care of yourself? All right?
Mmm. Okay.
- I love you.
- I love you too.
Hey! Hey. don't touch that!
You gotta go around!
That's a live wire! Go around!
Shit.
- Power's still on?
- Yeah.
Lines are already coming down.
As a result of that. uh.
I am this morning. uh. declaring. um.
that we will be doing a mandatory
evacuation. and I'm gonna read…
Mark. your mom's in the city.
Are they evacuating the hospitals?
Is she gonna be all right?
Mark.
What do we do?
- Mr. Everett.
- Oh. Emmett's good. thank you.
Emmett. I'm Diane Robichaux.
one of the administrators
up here at Life Care.
How you doing?
- Well. I'm all right. How you doing?
- I'm good.
Your trip over from Chalmette
was all right?
It was all right.
You sure? Heard you got a little something
going on with your blood sugar.
Yeah. a little something's been going on.
but I'm good.
You're not sneaking any snacks. are ya?
- Nah. I know better than that.
- I'm just checking.
Today's gonna be a little crazy
with the storm landing.
- You have anybody? Anybody at home?
- My wife.
- What's her name?
- Carrie.
Right. you need someone
to call and check in with her?
Ah. I got a phone.
All right. You have trouble
getting through. you let somebody know.
- Thank you.
- You just get some rest.
We'll get you back to Chalmette
just as soon as all this passes.
All right.
Rolfie!
Ah. how are you. huh?
Thought you had to
keep the pets downstairs?
Other people do.
- That isn't right.
- You want me to take him back downstairs?
Well. I just want you to be fair.
I'm a doctor. and doctors ought to be able
to bend the rules in their own hospital.
Doctors should set an example.
Oh. fine.
You want me to take him back downstairs?
I'll take him back downstairs.
- Ewing.
- Come on. Rolfie.
Mommy doesn't want you here.
Ewi... Ugh. this is like
when we were in that hotel in Atlanta.
and they made us
take the freight elevator with Rolfie.
and you wanted
to be on the people elevator.
That poor woman. she almost...
Well. she just went crazy
from the door opening.
Rolfie was standing...
Ewing! They almost kicked us out...
Yeah. Yeah. hello.
Well…
Potentially catastrophic
storm. Hurricane Katrina.
The US National Hurricane Center
says that Katrina
had made landfall just east of Grand Isle.
That is about 60 miles south
of New Orleans.
The streets are filling with water
that is having trouble draining
into the city's. uh.
sewer system and pump system…
Oh. I'm fine.
I am just a little bit chilly. yeah.
Well. you keep warm. now.
Are the nurses there?
Oh. they're here. Nurses are here.
you know. just like regular. Right.
- Is Jill with you?
- Oh. Jill. yes.
Jill's here. Yeah.
Well. that's good.
You... You stay close to Jill. Okay. Ma?
Listen. Mark.
Uh. what I'm really concerned about
is you and Sandra. Now...
How are you doing there?
No. no. we'll be all right.
Now listen. if anything happens.
do what the doctors tell you…
…take good care...
Hello. I can't hear you. dear.
- I can't hear you. What?
- Mom? Okay... They'll take good care...
What's that? I... I can't hear you.
- Mom?
- Mark?
Mom?
M-Mark?
Mom!
Mom. you there?
Mark?
Shit.
Is your mom all right?
Lost connection.
Mom.
Hey. I didn't mean to wake you.
Everything okay?
Okay as it can be.
I'm a nursing director.
I didn't expect
to be in charge of all this.
Tired?
I'm all right.
Feels good. Mom.
Diane. Got a problem.
- Mulderick.
- This is Diane Robichaux.
- I'm sorry. Who is this?
- Diane Robichaux up at Life Care.
We have water leaking through the...
I mean. through the ceiling.
Do you know where it's coming from?
Well. I don't know.
but there's water coming through.
Is everything all right?
I can't tell you what's going on up there.
Well. you're the incident commander
for the hospital. yes?
- Yes.
- So I'm asking. is everything all right?
- Eric. Eric.
- Yeah.
I just got a call
from someone up at Life Care.
They're saying there's water coming
through the ceiling.
- Water?
- Coming through the ceiling.
Life Care. That's seventh floor.
Probably rainwater getting blown
into the building.
That's what I thought.
But everything else?
Any other problems?
This building can take these winds.
Been here 80 years. It can take it.
Only thing to worry about.
worst case. is flooding.
Severe flooding.
Okay. If there was severe flooding...
- I mean. what would we do?
- We'd have to evacuate.
Evacuate?
How?
Well. I don't know how.
I mean. you're the incident commander.
I'm not having a very good feeling
about any of this.
I'm concerned about what happens
to the hospital if it's flooded.
If this storm is a Cat 5
like how they keep saying on TV.
even if it's Category 4.
and it pushes a lake.
a river. over a levee...
Hospital sits three feet below sea level.
It's not gonna take much to flood
the basement. Maybe even the first floor.
Well. if we have need to move patients
to the second floor. third...
- We can't move ER patients.
- That's not the only problem.
It's the backup generators.
Parts of the emergency power system
are at ground level. Below ground level.
If the levees were to breach.
if the city power goes...
- If the levees breach. If we lose power.
- We're gonna lose the backup generators.
and we're gonna lose all power
in the hospital.
All power. No equipment. no monitors.
no ventilators. no pumps...
I get it. All means all.
When you say flooding. how much
standing water are we talking about?
Eight feet. ten feet?
Take about four feet
to put us out of business.
And there's already a foot of water...
More than a foot out there right now.
Jesus fucking...
Now is not a good time to be hearing this.
Well. I wrote up a memorandum
after the last hurricane warning you all
about something like this.
I put it in front of the administrators.
- It doesn't do any good to get defensive.
- I'm not getting defensive.
I'm telling y'all that this
isn't the first time this has come up.
All right. fine. So what are our options?
There are no options.
We lose power. we'd have to evacuate.
- Okay.
- It is not okay.
There is no plan for evacuating
the hospital if it's flooded.
What does the emergency manual say?
There is no plan for evacuating
the hospital if it's flooded.
There's a plan for a mass casualty event.
a civil disorder event.
a bomb threat event.
a plan for an active shooter situation.
There's a hundred and something
pages in there
about what to do
in case of a bio terror attack.
There is no plan for an evacuation
if the hospital is flooded.
No. I just reread it. There is nothing
in there about 2.000 people.
200 of them patients. cut off stranded
in a hospital without power.
If the basement floods.
we lose all the food.
the fresh water. all our supplies.
Look. four feet of water.
and we have got problems.
We've got more than problems.
Well. you're the incident commander.
Jesus. Could people stop saying that?
If there's something we should be doing.
it's your call.
Ma.
Mmm.
I'm gonna take a little walk.
I'll be right back. Promise.
Mm-hmm.
Oh.
Yeah.
Wind gusts
of about 185 miles per hour.
And winds of up to 150 miles per hour.
It is still expected
to be a formidable menace.
Tornado warnings at this hour expected
for Louisiana. Mississippi.
Alabama and Florida…
In its wake.
there have been winds registering
over 100 miles per hour.
And that's here about four miles inland.
Along the sea.
it's been much worse than that.
We've already got reports
of boats tossed along Interstate 90.
which is about 75 feet away
from the beach.
You can see widespread damage.
There are stoplights down.
The new sh... theaters.
the new restaurants. the new hotels
that have been built in the last
couple years all have been damaged.
You okay?
You all right?
Mr. Hill.
Let's get you back to your room. okay?
- Okay.
- Okay. come.
Okay. Ready?
Yeah.
There we go. All right.
- What's going on?
- I was with a patient. What's happening?
Anna.
Susan.
- Susan. you're bleeding.
- I'm just... It's fine.
Anna. it's Mulderick.
The walkway's shaking badly.
I don't think it's gonna hold up.
You need to evacuate.
You gotta get out of there.
or you'll be cut off from everything.
Got it. Start going across.
Get everyone off the unit.
We have to evacuate. Get everybody out.
- Okay. let's go! Let's go!
- Across the walkway.
Everybody. across the walkway!
No. no. no. Leave your things.
Leave your things and go.
Eric. the storm's surging.
The water's at three feet.
Copy that. The water's coming in fast.
Come on! Hurry! Hurry!
Go. I'll meet you.
All right. take everybody you can
and move them off the floor. Let's go!
- You too. Let's go.
- Wait. But is everyone off the east side?
I don't know.
- Take her. I'm right behind you.
- Let's go.
Susan. Mulderick. are you there?
- I'm here.
- It's Karen. I'm in ICU.
The windows are breaking
and the floors are filling up with water.
Get everybody you can off the unit.
Okay. we're doing that. But there's...
I got patients. We can't move.
- Do what you can. but you gotta hold on.
- Susan!
- You gotta hold on.
- We got water coming into the basement.
- How much?
It's at three feet outside the building.
We've gotta get everything
outta the basement.
- Food supplies. everything.
- That'll take hours.
We've got 200 doctors and staff.
Get 'em. Get 'em working.
- Food and water first.
- Let's go.
Get to the basement.
Horace… it's Susan.
- I'm here.
- Horace. the basement is flooding.
The first floor might take on water.
I need y'all to start moving the people
from admitting to the second floor.
and I need it done calmly.
Understood.
Bryant. Bryant.
Um. we have to move all these folks
upstairs quickly but very calmly.
- Got it?
- Yeah.
Excuse me.
If I could have your attention?
Uh.
we might be getting some new patients in.
Emergency arrivals. So we're gonna
go ahead and move people upstairs.
Go ahead and grab your things.
Walk upstairs just one floor.
Okay.
Here it comes.
Easy going. We gotta keep it moving.
Anyone else here?
Anyone here?
Come on.
Come with me.
Oh. no.
Come on. Come on. Close your eyes.
Okay. close your eyes.
It's gonna be okay.
Awesome God.
we thank you for your protection.
We need your protection.
Give your divine and protect...
Protective shield. Lord.
Thank you. Thank you for your mercy.
Look over Lisa every time she's sleeping.
Thank you.
Give your divine and protect...
Protective shield. Lord. Thank you.
God. help us.
Tired of searching for subtitles?
Ray generates them instantly: getray.app